# NYC Citi Bike Analysis
This is a summary overview of the analytical work I performed on comparing New York City Citi Bike data to Des Moines potential if it adopted a similar program.
## Summary Analysis
[Go to Michael Berg's Tableau NYC Citi Bike Analysis](https://public.tableau.com/profile/michael3799#!/vizhome/MichaelBerg-CitiBikeStory/ChallengeStory?publish=yes)
<br>Given my perceived view of the dichotomy between Des Moines and New York City's population bases, the key question(s) to answer were: What is the population of Des Moines? How does its population compare to the population of New York City? Does the population affect the number of people who will use the bike-sharing program? <br>As such, my key takeaway is that Des Moines should NOT pursue investing in a Citi Bike program, primarily on the issue of its population size (~1/40th) that is also extremely less dense (~1/10th), both per the US Census Bureau, which, in my view, would make it very difficult for the bikes to be a profitable venture. The other aspects of its population (mostly in line to better than NYC) do not have enough of an impact on the potential of the program to offset the density and population size issues.<br> Below, I discuss each of the key aspects in more detail.

## Story Page Summaries
### Median Wage and Expenses Comparison
Initially, it seemed as if Des Moines had a major advantage to New York City, as even though its median household income of $49,999 was modestly lower to New York City's of $63,799 (per datausa.io), it had a significnatly less cost of living (~61% per payscale.com). Therefore, my initial take was that Des Moines should be able to drive a robust subscriber business (where New Yor City had over 80% of its rides come from) as its population had a higher percentage of disposable income.
### Density Comparison (Bike Utilization)
Further, the size of its population and density were both significantly less than NYC (highlighted above). While that is typically a negative (which I will discuss in detail below), I believe that it would allow for fewer bikes to be deployed, which could actually lead to improved usage of each individual bike versus New York City (see the Tableau circle graph to highlight how many have limited usage). In theory this could also lead to improved ROI on each bike should people use them consistently.
### Gender Comparison
When comparing the gender make up of the two citis population, New York City had modestly fewer males (per the US Census Bureau) in its population than Des Moines. In turn, based on at least 65% of New York City's rides being taken by men, it implies that Des Moines has a moderately favorable gender split. Should the same pattern hold in Des Moine it should make for a larger possibility of rides to be taken.
### Age Comparison
However, when comparing the age distribution of the two cities, Des Moines only has 56.9% of its population between 18-65 versus NYC at 58.6% (source: US Census Bureau). This is the sect of the population that should take the most and longest rides, per our analysis. As such, we would believe that Des Moines ould had a modestly smaller opportunity set for the number and length of bike rides for the Citi Bike program.
### Density Comparison (Sporadic Placement)
Lastly, and in my view, the biggest impact that led to my decision to not recommned the program to Des Moines, is the massive disparity in population size and density. While we noted above that on the positive side it could potentially lead to more usage as significantly fewer bikes are required, and the weather is typically better, upon further analysis, the bikes would be spread way too far apart. When looking at New York City's lowest usage bikes, we get a small number that are vastly spread across the entire city. Even when taking the smaller population of Des Moines into account, the significnatly less dense population would not be able to access the bikes easily enough to get the full utilization out of them. Therefore, this override all the similariteis and positives Des Moines had to make me suggest the program should not be adopted.